Listening to people provides definite ideas for making the product more saleable.
It also suggests to the manufacturer what he should tell consumers about the product in his advertising.
The procedure for developing successful products is to get as much opinion as you can,
listen to the people who will buy the product, and then design the product and its promotion to please these people.
In an office recently, I noticed a sign that said, To sell John Brown what John Brown buys,
you've got to see things through John Brown's eyes.
And the way to get John Brown's vision is to listen to what John Brown has to say.
Your ears are your intake valves.
They feed your mind raw materials that can be converted into creative power.
We learn nothing from telling, but there is no limit to what we can learn by asking and listening.
Try this three-stage program to strengthen your creativity through asking and listening.
1.
Encourage others to talk.
In personal conversation or in group meetings, draw out people with little urges,
such as, tell me about your experience, or what do you think should be done about,
or what do you think is the key point.
Encourage others to talk, and you win a double-barreled victory.
Your mind soaks up raw material that you can use to produce creative thought, and you win friends.
There is no surer way to get people to like you than to encourage them to talk to you.
2.
Test your own views in the form of questions.
Let other people help you smooth and polish your ideas.
Use the what-do-you-think-of-this-suggestion approach.
Don't be dogmatic.
Don't announce a fresh idea as if it were handed down on a gold tablet.
Do a little informal research first.
See how your associates react to it.
If you do, chances are you'll end up with a better idea.
3.
Concentrate on what the other person says.
Listening is more than just keeping your own mouth shut.
Listening means letting what's said penetrate your mind.
So often, people pretend to listen when they aren't listening at all.
They're just waiting for the other person to pause so they can take over with the talking.
Concentrate on what the other person says.
Evaluate it.
That's how you collect mind food.