In hundreds of interviews with people at all levels, I've made this discovery.
The bigger the person, the more apt he is to encourage you to talk.
The smaller the person, the more apt he is to preach to you.
Big people monopolize the listening.
Small people monopolize the talking.
Note this, also.
Top-level leaders in all walks of life spend much more time requesting advice than they do in giving it.
Before a top man makes a decision, he asks, How do you feel about it?
What do you recommend?
What would you do under these circumstances?
How does this sound to you?
Look at it this way.
A leader is a decision-making human machine.
Now, to manufacture anything, you've got to have raw material.
In reaching creative decisions, the raw materials are the ideas and suggestions of others.
Don't, of course, expect other people to give you ready-made solutions.
That's not the primary reason for asking and listening.
Ideas of others help to spark your own ideas, so your mind is more creative.
Recently, I participated as a staff instructor in an executive management seminar.
The seminar consisted of 12 sessions.
One of the highlights of each meeting was a 15-minute discussion by one of the executives on the topic,
How I Solved My Most Pressing Management Problem.
At the ninth session, the executive whose turn it was, a vice president of a large milk processing company,
did something different.
Instead of telling how he had solved his problem, he announced his topic as,
Needed, Help on Solving My Most Pressing Management Problem.
He quickly outlined his problem and then asked the group for ideas on solving it.
To be sure, he got a record of each idea suggested.
He had a stenographer in the room, taking down everything that was said.
Later I talked with this man and complimented him on his unique approach.
His comment was, there are some very sharp men in this group.
I just figured I'd harvest some ideas.
There's a good possibility something someone said during that session may give me the clue I need to solve the problem.
Note, this executive presented his problem, then listened.
In so doing, he got some decision-making raw material, and as a side benefit,
the other executives in the audience enjoyed the discussion, because it gave them the opportunity to take part.
Successful businesses invest large sums in consumer research.
They ask people about the taste, quality, size, and appearance of a product.