Every day, it seems, this takes place in the fast-moving world of business.
The boss calls in an employee and explains that a special task must be accomplished.
Then he says, I know you got a lot of work to do, but can you handle this?
Too often the employee replies, I'm awfully sorry, but I'm all loaded down now.
I wish I could take it on, but I'm just too busy.
Under the circumstances, the boss doesn't hold it against the employee because it is extra duty, so to speak.
But the boss realizes the task must be done, and he'll keep on looking until he finds an employee who is just as busy as the rest,
but who feels he can take on more.
And this employee is the fellow who will forge ahead.
In business, in the home, in the community, the success combination is do what you do better,
improve the quality of your output, and do more of what you do,
increase the quantity of your output.
Convinced it pays to do more and better?
Then try this two-step procedure.
1.
Eagerly accept the opportunity to do more.
It's a compliment to be asked to take on a new responsibility.
Accepting greater responsibility on the job makes you stand out and shows that you're more valuable.
When your neighbors ask you to represent them on a civic matter, accept.
It helps you to become a community leader.
2.
Next, concentrate on how can I do more?
Creative answers will come.
Some of these answers may be better planning and organization of your present work,
or taking intelligent shortcuts in your routine activities, or possibly dropping non-essential activities altogether.
But let me repeat, the solution for doing more will appear.
As a personal policy, I have accepted fully the concept, if you want it done,
give it to a busy man.
I refuse to work on important projects with persons who have lots of free time.
I have learned from painful, expensive experience that the fellow who has plenty of time makes an ineffective work partner.
All the successful, competent people I know are busy.
When I start something, some project with them, I know it will be satisfactorily completed.
I have learned in dozens of instances that I can count on a busy man to deliver,
but I have often been disappointed in working with people who have all the time in the world.
Progressive business management constantly asks, what can we do to expand output?
Why not ask yourself, what can I do to expand my output?
Your mind will creatively show you how.