That's basic to creative thinking.
Here are suggestions to help you develop creative power through belief.
1.
Eliminate the word impossible from your thinking and speaking vocabularies.
Impossible is a failure word.
The thought it's impossible sets off a chain reaction of other thoughts to prove you're right.
2.
Think of something you've been wanting to do but felt you couldn't.
Now make a list of reasons why you can do it.
Many of us whip and defeat our desires simply because we concentrate on why we can't,
when the only thing worthy of our mental concentration is why we can.
Recently I read a newspaper item that said there are too many counties in most states.
The article pointed out that most county boundaries were established decades before the first automobile was built,
and while the horse and buggy was the chief mode of travel.
But today, with fast automobiles and good roads, there is no reason why three or four counties could not be combined.
This would cut down greatly on duplicated services so that taxpayers would actually get better service for less money.
The writer of this article said he thought he had stumbled across a really live idea,
so he interviewed 30 people at random to get their reactions.
The result?
Not one person thought the idea had merit, even though it would provide them with better local government at less cost.
That's an example of traditional thinking.
The traditional thinker's mind is paralyzed.
He reasons, it's been this way for a hundred years, therefore it must be good and must stay this way.
Why risk a change?
Average people have always resented progress.
Many voiced a protest toward the automobile on the grounds that nature meant for us to walk or use horses.
The airplane seemed drastic to many.
Man had no right to enter the province reserved for birds.
A lot of status-quoers still insist that man has no business in space.
One top missile expert recently gave an answer to this kind of thinking.
Man belongs, says Dr. Von Braun, where man wants to go.
Around 1900, a sales executive discovered a scientific principle of sales management.
It received a lot of publicity and even found its way into textbooks.
The principle was this.
There is one best way to sell a product.
Find the best way, then never deviate from it.
Fortunately for this man's company, new leadership came in in time to save the organization from financial ruin.
Contrast that experience with the philosophy of Crawford H. Greenwalt, president of one of the nation's largest business organizations,
E. I. DuPont de Nemours.
In a talk at Columbia University, Mr. Greenwalt said, There are many ways in which a good job can be done,
as many ways, in fact, as there are men to whom the task is given.
In truth, there is no one best way to do anything.
There is no one best way to decorate an apartment, landscape a lawn,
make a sail, rear a child, or cook a steak.
There are as many best ways as there are creative minds.
Nothing grows in ice.
If we let tradition freeze our minds, new ideas can't sprout.