A young bank executive related this personal experience about work capacity.
One of the other executives in our bank left us with very short notice.
This put our department on the spot.
The fellow leaving had filled an important job, and his work couldn't be postponed or left undone.
The day after he left, the vice president in charge of my department called me in.
He explained to me that he had already talked individually to the two others in my group,
asking them if they could divide the work of the man who had just left until a replacement could be found.
Neither of them flatly refused, said the vice president, but each stated that he is up to his neck now with his own pressing work.
I'm wondering if you could handle some of the overload temporarily?
Throughout my working career, I've learned that it never pays to turn down what looks like an opportunity.
So I agreed and promised to do my very best to handle all the vacated job as well as keep up with my own work.
The Vice President was pleased at this.
I walked out of his office knowing I had taken on a big job.
I was just as busy as the two others in my department who had wiggled out of this extra duty.
But I was determined to find a way to handle both jobs.
I finished up my work that afternoon, and when the offices were closed,
I sat down to figure out how I could increase my personal efficiency.
I got a pencil and started writing down every idea I could think of.
And you know, I came up with some good ones, like working out an arrangement with my secretary to channel all routine telephone calls to me during a certain hour each day,
placing all outgoing calls during a certain hour, cutting my usual conference periods from fifteen minutes to ten,
giving all my dictation at one time each day.
I also discovered my secretary could and was eager to take over a number of little time-consuming details for me.
I had been handling my present job for over two years, and frankly,
I was amazed to discover how much inefficiency I had let creep in.
Within a week's time, I was dictating twice as many letters, handling fifty percent more phone calls,
attending half again as many meetings, all with no strain.
A couple more weeks passed.
The vice president called me in.
He complimented me on doing a fine job.
He went on to say that he had looked over a number of people from both inside and outside the bank,
but he had not yet found the right man.
Then he confessed that he had already cleared with the bank's executive committee,
and they had authorized him to combine the two jobs, put them both in my charge,
and give me a substantial increase in salary.
I prove to myself that how much I can do depends on how much I think I can do.
Capacity is indeed a state of mind.