Big success calls for persons who continually set higher standards for themselves and others,
persons who are searching for ways to increase efficiency, to get more output at lower cost,
do more with less effort.
Top success is reserved for the I-can-do-it-better kind of person.
General Electric uses the slogan, Progress is our most important product.
Why not make progress your most important product?
The I-can-do-better philosophy works magic.
When you ask yourself, how can I do better?
Your creative power is switched on and ways for doing things better suggest themselves.
Here is a daily exercise that will help you discover and develop the power of the I-can-do-better attitude.
Each day, before you begin work, devote 10 minutes to thinking, how can I do a better job today?
Ask, what can I do today to encourage my employees?
What special favor can I do for my customers?
How can I increase my personal efficiency?
This exercise is simple, but it works.
Try it, and you'll find unlimited creative ways to win greater success.
Just about every time my wife and I would get together with a certain couple,
the conversation would turn to working wives.
Mrs. S had worked several years before her marriage, and she had genuinely liked it.
But now, she'd say, I've got two youngsters in school, a home to manage, and meals to prepare.
I simply haven't got time.
Then one Sunday evening, Mr. and Mrs. S and their children were in an automobile accident.
Mrs. S and the youngsters escaped serious injury, but Mr. S received a back injury that left him permanently disabled.
Now Mrs. S had no choice but to go to work.
When we saw her several months after the accident, we were amazed to find how well she had adjusted to her new responsibilities.
You know, she said, six months ago I never dreamed I could possibly manage the house and work full time.
But after the accident, I just made up my mind that I had to find the time.
Believe me, my efficiency has gone up 100%.
I discovered a lot of things I was doing didn't need to be done at all.
Then I discovered that the children could and wanted to help.
I found dozens of ways to conserve time.
Fewer trips to the store, less TV, less telephoning, less of those time killers.
This experience teaches us a lesson.
Capacity is a state of mind.
How much we can do depends on how much we think we can do.
When you really believe you can do more, your mind thinks creatively and shows you the way.