More and more leading universities are offering advanced management training programs for senior business executives.
According to the sponsors, the big benefit of these programs is not that the executives get ready-made formulae that they can use to operate their business more efficiently.
Rather, they benefit most from the opportunity to exchange and discuss new ideas.
Many of these programs require the executives to live together in college dormitories, thus encouraging bull sessions.
Boiled down to one word, the executives benefit most from the stimulation received.
A year ago, I directed two sessions in a one-week sales management school in Atlanta,
sponsored by the National Sales Executives Incorporated.
A few weeks later, I met a salesman friend who worked for one of the sales executives who'd attended the school.
You people at the school sure gave my sales manager a lot of things to do to run our company better,
my young friend said.
Curious, I asked him specifically what changes he'd noticed.
He reeled off a number of things, a revision in the compensation plan,
sales meetings twice a month instead of once a month, new business cards and stationery,
a revision in sales territories, not one of which was specifically recommended in the training program.
The sales manager didn't get a bunch of canned techniques.
Instead, he got something much more valuable, the stimulation to think of ideas directly beneficial to his own particular organization.
A young accountant for a paint manufacturer told me about a very successful venture of his that was sparked by the ideas of others.
I never had had more than a casual interest in real estate, he told me.
I've been a professional accountant for several years now, and I've stuck pretty close to my profession.
One day a realtor friend invited me to be his guest at a luncheon of one of the city's real estate groups.
The speaker that day was an older man who had seen the city grow.
His talk was about the next twenty years.
He predicted that the metropolitan area would continue to grow far out into the surrounding farmland.
He also predicted that there would be a record demand for what he called gentleman-size farms,
two to five acres, big enough so the businessman or professional person could have a pool,
horses, a garden, and other hobbies that require space.
This man's talk really stimulated me.
What he described was exactly what I wanted.
The next few days I asked several friends what they thought about the idea of someday owning a five-acre estate.