A little over two years ago, a young man asked me to help him find a job with more future.
He was employed as a clerk in the credit department of a mail order company and felt that he was getting nowhere.
We talked about his past record and what he wanted to do.
After knowing something about him, I said, I admire you very much for wanting to move up the ladder to a better job and more responsibility.
But getting a start in the kind of job you want requires a college degree these days.
I notice you've finished three semesters.
May I suggest you finish college?
Going summers, you can do it in two years.
Then I'm sure you can land the job you want, with the company you want to work for." I realize,
he answered, that a college education would help, but it's impossible for me to go back to school.
Impossible?
Why?
I asked.
Well, for one thing, he began, I'm twenty-four.
On top of that, my wife and I are expecting our second child in a couple of months.
We barely get by now on what I make.
I wouldn't have time to study since I'd have to keep my job.
It's just impossible, that's all.
This young man really had himself convinced that finishing college was impossible.
Then I said to him, if you believe it is impossible to finish school, then it is.
But by the same token, if you'll just believe it is possible to return to the university,
a solution will come.
Now here's what I would like you to do.
Make up your mind you are going to go back to school.
Let that one thought dominate your thinking.
Then think, really think about how you can do it and still support your family.
Come back in a couple of weeks and let me know what ideas you've come up with." My young friend returned two weeks later.
I thought a lot about what you said, he began.
I've decided I must go back to school.
I haven't figured out all the angles yet, but I'll find a solution.
And he did.
He managed to get a scholarship provided by a trade association, which paid his tuition, books, and incidentals.
He rearranged his work schedule so he could attend classes.
His enthusiasm and the promise of a better life won him his wife's full support.
Together they creatively found ways to budget money and time more effectively.
Last month, he received his degree one day and went to work the next as a management trainee for a large corporation.
Where there's a will, there is a way.
Believe it can be done.