A few months ago, a former student of mine, in business for just four years, opened her fourth hardware store.
This was quite a feat, considering the young lady's small initial capital investment of only $3,500,
strong competition from other stores, and the relatively short time she had been in business.
I visited her new store shortly after it opened, to congratulate her on the fine progress she had made.
In an indirect way, I asked her how she was able to make a success of three stores and open a fourth one,
when most merchants had to struggle to make a success of just one store.
Naturally, she answered, I worked hard, but just getting up early and working late isn't responsible for the four stores.
Most people in my business work hard.
The main thing I attribute my success to is my self-styled weekly improvement program.
A weekly improvement program?
Sounds impressive.
How does it work?
I asked.
Well, it really isn't anything elaborate, she continued.
It's just a plan to help me do a better job as each week rolls around.
To keep my forward thinking on the track, I've divided my job into four elements,
customers, employees, merchandise, and promotion.
All during the week I make notes and jot down ideas as to how I can improve my business.
Then, every Monday evening, I set aside four hours to review the ideas I've jotted down and figure out how to put the solid ones to use in the business.
In this four-hour period, I force myself to take a hard look at my operation.
I don't simply wish more customers would shop in my store.
Instead, I ask myself, what can I do to attract more customers?
How can I develop regular, loyal customers?
She went on describing numerous little innovations that made her first three stores so successful.
Things like the way she arranged the merchandise within her stores, her suggestion selling technique that sold two out of three customers merchandise they had not planned to buy when they entered her stores.
The credit plan she devised when many of her customers were out of work because of a strike.
The contest she developed that boosted sales during a slack season.
I ask myself, what can I do to improve my merchandise offerings?
And I get ideas.
Let me cite just one case.
Four weeks ago, it occurred to me that I should do something to get more youngsters into the store.
I reasoned if I had something here to draw the kids to the store,
I'd also draw more of the parents.
I kept thinking about it, and then this idea came.
Put in a line of small carted toys for children in the four to eight age bracket.
It's working.
The toys take little space, and I make a nice profit on them.
But most important, the toys have increased store traffic.
Believe me, she went on, my weekly improvement plan works.
Just by conscientiously asking myself, how can I do a better job, I find the answers.
It's a rare Monday night that I don't come up with some plan or technique that makes that profit and loss statement look better.
And I've learned something else, too, about successful merchandising, something that I think every person going into business for himself should know.
What's that, I asked?
Just this, it isn't so much what you know when you start that matters,
it's what you learn and put to use after you open your doors that counts most.