Everyone I talked to said, in effect, I'd love that.
I continued to think about it and to figure how I could turn the idea into profit.
Then one day, as I was driving to work, the answer came out of nowhere.
Why not buy a farm and divide it into estates?
I figured the land might be worth more in relatively small pieces than in one big piece.
Twenty-two miles from the center of the city, I found a worn-out fifty-acre farm priced at $8,500.
I bought it, paying only one-third down and working out a mortgage with the owner for the balance.
Next, I planted pine seedlings where there were no trees.
I did this because a real estate man, whom I feel knows his business,
told me, people want trees these days, lots of trees.
I wanted my prospective buyers to see that in a few years, their estate would be covered with beautiful pine trees.
Then I got a surveyor to divide the 50 acres into 10 5-acre plots.
Now I was ready to start selling.
I got several mailing lists of young executives in the city and put on a small-scale direct mail campaign.
I pointed out how for only $3,000, the price of a small city lot, they could buy an estate.
I also described the potentials for recreation and wholesome living.
In six weeks' time, working only evenings and on weekends, I sold all ten plots.
Total income, $30,000.
Total costs, including the land, advertising, surveying and legal expenses, $10,400.
Profit, $19,600.
I made a nice profit because I let myself be exposed to ideas of other intelligent people.
Had I not accepted that invitation to attend a luncheon with a group completely foreign to my occupational interests,
my brain would have never worked out this successful plan for making a profit.
There are many ways to get mental stimulation, but here are two that you can incorporate into your pattern of life.
First, join and meet regularly with at least one professional group that provides stimulation in your own occupational area.
Rub shoulders and minds with other success-oriented people.
So often I hear someone say, I picked up a great idea this noon at the blank meeting,
or during the meeting yesterday I got to thinking.
Remember, a mind that feeds only on itself soon is undernourished, becoming weak and incapable of creative progressive thought.
Stimulation from others is excellent mind food.
Second, join and participate in at least one group outside your occupational interests.
Association with people who have different job interests broadens your thinking and helps you to see the big picture.
You'll be surprised how mixing regularly with people outside your occupational area will stimulate your on-the-job thinking.